I chose to study electrical engineering because I have had diverse interests. I
love the endeavor to physically understand everything that exists, but I also
crave the practical applications of engineering and its associated problem
solving process. My goal is to be a leader in the field of quantum computing.
~
In order to achieve this goal, I want to pursue a PhD in an area related to
quantum computing at the intersection of electrical engineering and physics.
~

My experience in research and as an intern in industry as well as my coursework
have shaped my desire to pursue a PhD. After my sophomore year of undergrad, I
worked on electrical engineering research. I really enjoyed the process of
approaching a problem, formulating questions in order to solve the problem, and
then determining the best way to answer those questions. Last summer, I
participated in an NSF REU program examining rotationally inelastic collisions
between He and NaK or Ar and NaK. Imposing order on the chaos of the unknown
was a very rewarding experience.

I also want to do something with meaningful, real world applications. This was
my favorite part of the internships that I have had. After my junior year, I
worked for Adaptive Methods doing signal processing work. Perhaps the most
valuable lesson from this internship was the value of higher education in
industry. The people who determined the direction of the next technical
challenge to overcome all had post-graduate degrees. My goal is to make
meaningful contributions to the field of quantum computing, and a PhD is a
necessary step in this process.

My coursework has also prepared me well, in terms of technical knowledge and
other skills necessary to succeeding in graduate school and beyond. I have had
the opportunity to take extra computer science courses. The subject seemed
interesting to me, and it gave me plenty of practice in independent learning
since I had not taken the prerequisite courses and needed to fill in some of
the gaps. Another skill that my courses have developed in me is my ability to
react to an approach that didn't work as expected. For example, I received a
rather poor grade in the first semester of a sequence of electricity and
magnetism course. However, I knew that with different study approaches and a
little more time, I could learn the material better and succeed in the
subsequent course. I took the next course in the sequence, made the appropriate
adjustments in my study habits, and I got a much better grade (A-).

~
The research done by this institution in these areas has this application to
quantum computing. As a side note, it's also really cool because reasons.
Becoming an expert in this area will enable me to be a leader in the
development of quantum computing technology.
~

I love research and want to discover new knowledge. Ultimately, this will
prepare me to be a leader in the field of quantum computing.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

I have always had diverse interests. As an undergraduate student, I wrestled
with the question of whether to study engineering and physics. I love the
endeavor to understand physically everything that exists, but I also crave the
practical applications of engineering and its associated problem solving
process. My goal is to be a leader in research at the intersection of my
technical interests by contributing to the field of quantum computing.

In order to be a leader in a developing field of technology, it is useful to
have a PhD for higher level thinking and design work.
~If I want to learn it, I will. I persist and don't give up when it's hard.~

At the University of Notre Dame, the dual degree program that allowed me to
study both engineering and physics was in its infancy when I signed up for it.
The guidelines were not formally published until a couple of semesters after I
decided on my program of study. Deciding to pursue both degrees taught me a
valuable lesson about choosing a field of study and when to settle. I started
out as an engineering student but missed the theory and physics way of
thinking. However, I was unwilling to give up the engineering way of thinking.
The program afforded me the opportunity to take some useful electives in the
department of computer science - never mind that I had not taken the
prerequisite classes. 

I'm the student that loved the intense theory of physics but also
craved the useful applications of engineering. I'm the student who signed up
for computer science classes just because I could - never mind that I hadn't
taken the prerequisite classes and needed to get a handful of overrides even to
register. I'm the student who got one or two grades that I considered shameful
and yet took the next course in the sequence anyway because I knew I could do
better. A PhD requires very specific focus, but it is possible to do it all, if
done wisely. I like electrical engineering, love the physics of tiny things,
and enjoy dabbling in computer science. My life goal is to contribute to the
field of quantum computing, which is the intersection of my technical
interests. I want to lead the research that produces a viable quantum computer
that will make a difference in how we think about and use information.

The research done by this institution in these areas has this application to
the field of quantum computing. As a side note, it's also really cool because
reasons. Becoming an expert in this area will enable me to be a leader in the
development of quantum computing technology.

Research and internships.
It took some trial and error to figure out what I wanted to do. I tried both
engineering and physics research in very different areas. I loved the research
process: formulating questions and investigating them and imposing order on the
chaos of the unknown.

I'm a big picture person, so understanding how everything fits together is one
of the reasons

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

INTRODUCTION
quantum computing - something to do with tiny things, quantum
teleportation/weird mind-bending stuff, or fundamental particles
life goal needs a PhD

I have always had diverse interests. As an undergraduate student, I had
difficulty deciding whether to major in engineering or physics.  I loved the
intense theory of physics and the endeavor to understand everything that
exists, but I also craved the useful applications of engineering. The breadth
of my coursework and depth of research have shaped my life goal: to contribute
to the field of quantum computing. I want to lead the research at the
intersection of my technical interests to produce a viable quantum computer
that will change how we think about and use information. 

SUMMARIZE UNDERGRAD
research opportunities
coursework and diverse interests

ACADEMIC INTERESTS
convergence of coursework and interests
comment on their research

CONCLUSION
interest, enthusiasm

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

http://grad.berkeley.edu/admissions/apply/statement-purpose/
